 
UNITED NATIONS INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION 
 
Project of Tunisia 
 
Project number: 
 
XX/TUN/12/XXX – SAP No. 120357  
 
Project title: 
Facilitating youth employment through entrepreneurship and 
enterprise development in vulnerable regions of Tunisia: El Kef, 
Kairouan, Kasserine and Sidi Bouzid  
 
Thematic area code: 
EC1 Poverty Reduction through Productive Activities 
Proposed start: 
November 2012 
 
Duration: 
2.5 years 
 
Project site: 
El Kef, Kairouan, Kasserine, Sidi Bouzid (4 regions of Tunisia) 
 
Government  
co-ordinating agency: 
 
Ministry of Industry and Commerce  
Agency for the Promotion of Industry and Innovation (API) 
in cooperation with: 
Ministry of Employment and Vocational Training  
Ministry of Regional Development and Planning 
 
Project alliance 
partners: 
US Agency for International Development (USAID) 
Hewlett-Packard (HP) 
United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) 
Government of Italy (GOI) 
Project inputs: 
 
USD 1,327,434 (USAID) 
USD 272,727 (Hewlett Packard (HP)1 
EUR 760,177 or USD 1,000,500 (Government of Italy GOI) 
 
 
 
Support costs: 
 
USD 172,566 (USAID – 13%) 
USD 130,065 (GOI – 13%) 
USD   27,273 (HP – 10%)  
 
  Grand Total:                        USD 1,500,000 (USAID) 
 
 
 
         EUR 859,000 or USD 1,130,565 (GOI) 
 
 
 
         USD 300,000 (HP) 
 
 
                                                 
1 HP’s contribution for Tunisia credited to current UNIDO-HP TFINT11015 project  
2 
 
Table of Contents 
 
 
PROJECT SUMMARY ................................................................................................................... 3 
PROJECT BACKGROUND INFORMATION .................................................................................... 3 
A. 
KEY PROBLEMS TO BE ADDRESSED .................................................................................... 4 
B. 
REASONS FOR UNIDO ASSISTANCE .................................................................................... 5 
C. 
THE PROJECT ...................................................................................................................... 7 
C.1. Project objective .......................................................................................................................... 7 
C.2. UNIDO approach .......................................................................................................................... 8 
C.3. Target beneficiaries ................................................................................................................... 12 
C.4. Project outcomes and beneficiaries .......................................................................................... 12 
C.5. Gender aspects .......................................................................................................................... 14 
D. 
PARTNER LINKAGES ......................................................................................................... 14 
Hewlett Packard ................................................................................................................................ 14 
USAID ................................................................................................................................................ 14 
Government of Italy .......................................................................................................................... 15 
E. 
PARTNERS AND ROLES ..................................................................................................... 16 
Core Partners .................................................................................................................................... 16 
Tunisian Counterparts ....................................................................................................................... 17 
F. 
SUSTAINABILITY ............................................................................................................... 19 
G. 
RISKS ................................................................................................................................. 20 
H. 
MONITORING, REPORTING AND EVALUATION ................................................................ 20 
I. 
COMMUNICATIONS ......................................................................................................... 21 
J. 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY ................................................................................................ 22 
K. 
PRIOR OBLIGATIONS AND PREREQUISITES ...................................................................... 22 
L. 
LEGAL CONTEXT ............................................................................................................... 22 
ANNEX A: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION TEAM ......................................................................... 23 
ANNEX B: NATIONAL AND REGIONAL COMMITTEES ............................................................... 27 
ANNEX C: BUDGET SHEET SUMMARY ...................................................................................... 28 
ANNEX D: LOGICAL FRAMEWORK ............................................................................................ 29 
ANNEX E: PROJECT TIMELINES ................................................................................................. 34 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
PROJECT SUMMARY  
 
 
The project is expected to generate concrete and sustainable employment opportunities for Tunisian 
youth at this critical juncture in their history. Specifically, the project will create job opportunities for 
young people in four disadvantaged regions of Tunisia - el Kef, Kairouan, Kasserine and Sidi Bouzid - 
by fostering directly and indirectly the creation of new, and growth of existing, enterprises. The 
project approach is in line with the strategy of the Government of Tunisia to promote private sector 
development through Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) creation and growth in vulnerable 
regions.  
 
The project will build on a set of UNIDO programmes and methodologies to promote enterprise 
creation and growth fostering entrepreneurship among young people in four vulnerable regions in 
Tunisia. The project aims at two main outcomes: one focusing on the quality of services provided to 
mainly young entrepreneurs by local institutions and the second focusing on direct support to 
existing or potential projects with high employment potential in the four selected regions. The first 
component will enhance the knowledge and delivery capacity of regional and local business support 
and training institutions relating to critical areas around enterprise creation and development. The 
second component will provide direct technical assistance to targeted enterprises, in particular in 
the sector of agribusiness and environmental, and other driving sectors in the four regions.     
 
Overall, the project aims to reach roughly 10,000 aspiring and existing entrepreneurs as end-
beneficiaries, including many young people. At least 2,000 jobs (including direct, indirect and 
temporary) are expected to be created through the project and many more livelihoods enhanced.   
 
 
PROJECT BACKGROUND INFORMATION  
 
The project is an alliance between the Government of Italy, HP, USAID and UNIDO.  
 
The present project covers all outputs and activities proposed for financing by three donors, the 
Government of Italy, HP and USAID. In agreement with donors, each project output is proposed to 
be financed by one donor to meet donors’ main interests and to facilitate financial management and 
reporting on the progress of activities.   
 
While the present project is submitted for USAID and GOI contributions, HP’s contribution has 
already been credited to the current UNIDO-HP partnership project TFINT11015 covering Tunisia 
among other countries.  
 
The current project document has been designed to meet donors’ requirements as well as UNIDO’s 
requirements.   
 
 
4 
 
A. KEY PROBLEMS TO BE ADDRESSED 
 
National Unemployment 
The January 2011 Tunisian revolution and ensuing unrest throughout the country brought into focus 
the need for more inclusive growth and better governance.  Addressing the high rate of 
unemployment is seen as key to this effort.   
 
The unemployment rate in Tunisia is estimated at 46%, representing an estimated 800,000 
individuals.  Of these, 70% are under 30 years of age and over 20% (170,000) are university 
graduates.  Unemployment affects 30% of young women (23-29 years) which are often already in 
precarious jobs and 24% of young men.  
 
Unemployment impacts some regions of the country more than others.  The areas most aggrieved 
are those which also suffer from social disparities and economic exclusion: the regions of South, 
Central and North West. For example, whereas the national average of unemployment rate among 
university graduates is estimated at 23%, disaggregated data by region show alarming rates for 
certain regions:  Beja (31%), Gabes (39%), Gafsa (47%), Jendouba (40%), Kairouan (38%), Kasserine 
(39%), Medenine (33%), Tataouine (39%), Tozeur (43%) and Sidi Bouzid (41%). 
 
A large segment of the employed population also suffers from great instability and insecurity 
(economic and social). According to IMF, the informal economy contributes to 34% to the GDP.2 
            
Tunisian unemployment is attributed to a number of factors, including: 
 The public sector’s limited capacity to employ the local workforce, especially young 
graduates.  
 The limited size of private sector and its inability to create a sufficient number of work 
opportunities for the workforce, and in particular for graduates; 
 A mismatch between the skills required by private sector and those offered by young 
graduates.  
 
The government is well aware of these issues and is working to address unemployment in the 
poorest regions of the country. During the transitional period (2012-2013) Tunisia aims to resume a 
robust economic growth (around 5% per annum) and initiate the necessary political, social and 
economic reforms required to uplift socio-economic conditions in the country.3  
 
Private Sector Development in the Central North West 
The current project proposal targets the Central North West Regions of Tunisia which are essentially 
rural provinces where the average urbanization rate reaches 32% and agriculture occupies more 
than 30% of the workforce. The main crops in this region are olive, fruits (apricots, apples, pears, 
almonds), cereal and vegetable crops.   
The difficulty of young people, including graduates, to enter the job market in these areas is mainly 
due to the limited development of the private sector. The region had only 4,693 private companies 
in 2009, representing 7% of the total number of listed industrial companies. In addition, only 322 
firms of these 4,693 private companies employed over 10 employees.  Disaggregating by sector, 35% 
                                                 
2 IMF November 2011 MENA Oil importers: Meeting social needs, restoring economic confidence 
3 Reference: Economic & Social Program, The Yasmin Plan, September 2011, Republic of Tunisia, Finance 
Ministry 
5 
 
of these 322 companies were operating in the food industry (113 firms), 25% in textile and clothing 
(81firms) and 21% in wood working and manufacturing wood products (67companies). The service 
sector is in turn dominated by small retail and government.  Between 2005 and 2009, the Central 
North West regions recorded a net creation of 529 companies against 5,556 in the North-East 
region. 
   
The low productive dynamic of the private sector can be attributed to:  
 
• 
A business environment not conducive to entrepreneurship and enterprise creation  (e.g. 
under-developed basic infrastructure;  insufficient  business development support; a risk-
averse banking sector); 
• 
The absence of well organized value chains resulting in unequal income distribution between 
producers and non-organized suppliers, including an evident lack of agreements among 
suppliers to obtain potential cost savings (on the supply, transportation, distribution, etc.); 
and 
• 
A weak entrepreneurial culture among the young graduates 
 
 
B. REASONS FOR UNIDO ASSISTANCE 
 
 
The project will build on UNIDO’s expertise and experience in the creation and development of 
enterprises, entrepreneurship programmes and clean production and resource efficiency. The 
project is also based on UNIDO’s partnership programme with Hewlett Packard focusing on HP’s 
Learning Initiative for Entrepreneurs, an entrepreneurship and IT training programme for 
entrepreneurs.  
 
The project draws on solid partnerships in Tunisia developed by UNIDO, in particular with the 
Agency for the Promotion of Industry and Innovation (API), the National Agency for Employment 
(ANETI),  CTAA (Technical Centre for Agro-Food), Packtech (Packaging Technical Centre), the National 
Institute For Standardization and Industrial Property, CITET (International Centre for Environmental 
Technologies), CTAA (AgroFood Technical Centre), CETTEX (Textile Technical Center)  and CNCC 
(Leather and Tannery Technical Center).   
Linkages with other projects in Tunisia 
There is considerable opportunity to build on this expertise and ensuring networks to increase the 
impact and visibility of this project.  Specifically, the project will build on and create linkages with: 
• 
The results achieved so far by the MDG-F joint program “Engaging Tunisian Youth for the 
MDGs” (FMTUN09002) for enterprise creation and development in Gafsa, el Kef and Grand 
Tunis. So far under this program: 
o More than 400 young trainers trained in relevant employment topics; 
o More than 500 youth trained or coached; 
o More than 300 enterprises created by young entrepreneurs; 
o More than 140 local agents trained on cultural orientation and juridical manuals for 
migration;   
o More than 10 analyses, feasibility studies etc. on green jobs developed; and 
o Three regional action plans on youth employment developed 
6 
 
The project will build on the experience and lessons learned from the implementation of the 
MDG-F programme in Gafsa, el Kef and Grand Tunis taking into account the following 
aspects: 
- 
Young entrepreneurs (25-40 years) assisted (mostly university graduates) lack experience in 
management, communication and technical subjects 
- 
Young entrepreneurs lack knowledge of the business environment and the competence in 
making a market analysis (including the difficulty to find appropriate market data) 
- 
Young entrepreneurs do not command all elements of their project which refrains them 
from engaging into negotiations with banks 
- 
Lack of own funds by young entrepreneurs 
- 
Need of business coaching after launch of business 
- 
Lengthy administrative procedures in all phases of business creation/not favourable business 
climate in the targeted regions  
 
• 
The Transfer of Environmentally Sound Technology in the South Mediterranean Region 
(MED-TEST), funded by GEF and the Italian Government and implemented by UNIDO in 
Tunisia, Morocco and Egypt. In Tunisia the project targeted three industrial sectors: Textile, 
Agro-food and Leather. An investment plan was put in place for 15 companies corresponding 
to an estimated 3.3M USD of annual savings and an average ROI of less than 1.5 years, with 
spin off in terms of employment, quality and market opportunities.  
 
• 
The National Cleaner Production Center Project strengthening national capacities for cleaner 
production in Tunisia and developing a regional network of cleaner production centers in the 
MENA region; linkages will be made between the piloted companies under the NCPC and the 
TEST programme to showcase their experience in cleaner production   
 
• 
The planned UNIDO project to promote the market access increase of local agro-products 
focusing on the regions of Kasserine and Sidi Bouzid, to be financed by SECO Switzerland 
 
• 
The UNIDO-driven Youth Networks in the Mediterranean basin (e.g. Italian Youth 
Entrepreneurs Network) that will culminate on the occasion of the “Youth Conference on 
Productive Work for Youth in Tunisia and the MENA region”. The conference will be held in 
Tunisia in November 2012 and will see the participation of over 400 people, mostly youth, 
from the countries of the MENA region. The Networks are supported by a web-based 
platform that aims to increase youth participation and involvement in political dialogue 
around critical thematic areas such as employment, entrepreneurship and access to funding 
for young entrepreneurs.  The event is also expected to promote foreign and national 
investments.  
 
• 
The project will build on UNIDO funded research in the field of Youth Employment and 
Entrepreneurship that is currently being implemented in Tunisia and Egypt.  
 
• 
Finally, the project will directly build on the implementation of the HP LIFE programme in 
Tunisia. From January until September 2012 more than 100 aspiring and existing 
entrepreneurs have been trained on HP LIFE in 8 training sessions and more than 50% of LIFE 
trainees obtained business counselling to progress in the implementation of their projects.    
 
 
 
 
7 
 
 
Sector-Specific Interventions 
 
While this project targets enterprises and entrepreneurs with strong prospects and solid-
employment generating opportunities, there is strong rationale for some focus on agribusiness and 
environmental management. These sectors already generate considerable economic activity in the 
country and offer solid market potential and opportunities from an investment perspective. Studies 
from the Food and Agriculture Organization (survey on national agro-industries in Tunisia (2011), 
UNIDO research on the identification of investment opportunities in Tunisian regions (2010) and an 
ILO study on the green job capacities/competencies in Tunisia (2011) underscore the significance of 
these sectors.  
 
For example, the FAO survey argues that the agro-food industries sector in Tunisia occupies an 
important place in Tunisia’s economy and has a favourable framework to consolidate its 
development as well as favourable future market prospects. All statistic information available 
suggests that food demand in Tunisia continue to grow under the influence of demographic changes 
and improvements in income, especially for processed products. Similarly, the Agreement signed 
with EU and other countries provide export opportunities. In recent years, the Tunisian Agro-Food 
Industry has registered improvements in all of its economic indicators. This result appears through 
the dynamism of investments in this sector and the consolidation of its contribution to increased 
production and employment. The agro-food industry ranks first among the manufacturing industries 
in terms of investments, and ranks third in terms of value added contribution. 
   
The UNIDO study on the identification of investment opportunities in selected Tunisian regions 
confirms favourable investment opportunities in agri-business and energy (renewable energy) in the 
region of el Kef, for instance, which is one of the four targeted regions in the project. The 
identification of selected projects for investments is a result of studying the entrepreneurial and 
general environment of selected regions, a SWOT analysis, a study on the opportunities and 
constraints of the different sectors of the regions and national sectoral reports. The ILO study on 
green jobs in Tunisia, states that the Government prepares for the transition to a green economy by 
increased investments respectively by seeking to establish an investment climate conducive to green 
economy particularly by encouraging green projects for energy efficiency and renewable energies, 
waste recycling and waste water treatment, protection of natural resources. To meet the future 
needs by the green economy, the study outlines the relevance of integrating environmental training 
modules in the curricula of training institutions and Tunisian entrepreneurs’/enterprises’ access to 
environmental training to tackle their environmental challenges.  
 
To ensure a demand driven approach, the project will conduct a market assessment/analysis at the 
outset to provide evidence to the demand for skills in the above proposed sectors and to narrow in 
on enterprises and opportunities with greatest prospects.  
   
 
C. THE PROJECT 
 
C.1. Project objective 
 
Development objective 
 
Create job opportunities for young people in four vulnerable regions, by developing new and existing 
companies. The objective contributes to poverty reduction through productive activities, one of 
UNIDO’s thematic priorities.  
8 
 
 
The project seeks to contribute to the achievement of the following Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs): 
 
• 
MDG 1: “Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger”, and more specifically its target 1b: 
“Achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all, including women and 
young people” 
• 
MDG 3:  Promote gender equality and empower women 
• 
MDG 7: “Ensure Environmental sustainability” which is also in line with the objectives of the 
UN Conference on Sustainable Development (UNCSD or “Rio+20”) to ensure universal access 
to modern energy services, to double the rate of improvement of energy efficiency, and to 
double the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix.  
 
The development objective is in line with the Tunisian Government’s strong commitment to respond 
to the challenge of youth unemployment, through decentralized interventions in lagging regions 
(Center-West) and in line with its orientation to move towards a greener economy. Moreover, the 
Government has clearly set as priority the reinvigoration of the Private Sector, in particular SME 
creation and development, as an engine for the economical renaissance of lagging regions.  
Following direct consultations of UNIDO with Government representatives (Ministry of Industry, 
Ministry of Regional Development and Planning, Ministry of Employment and Vocational Training, 
API and ANETI) in April 2012, and based on initial dialogue with Regional Governors, the project 
appears to be highly aligned with the Government’s priorities and is expected to enjoy strong 
Government support. This support helps assure the sustainability of the project and its approach. 
 
 
C.2. UNIDO approach 
 
In order to support the Government of Tunisia in its efforts to create employment, especially among 
youth and women, UNIDO will stimulate entrepreneurship development and enterprise creation and 
growth with special regard to the agribusiness and environmental management (e.g. cleaner 
production, resource efficiency) sectors in the Center West regions of Tunisia: El Kef, Kasserine, 
Kairouan and Sidi Bouzid. To further strengthen the support provided to SMEs, a strong capacity 
building component will be offered to national and regional service providers.  
 
The project is divided into two key components covering selected programmes and methodologies 
from UNIDO and HP to reach the project outcomes: 
 
Component 1 
 
 In component 1 two different methodologies will be applied: 
a) Enterprise Creation, Development, and Growth  
b) UNIDO TEST  
 
The enterprise creation, development and growth approach, generated by an holistic and 
comprehensive intervention aims at intervening at various levels (Macro, Meso and Micro)  in order 
to maximize the development effect and impact, thus promoting the sustainability of the 
intervention.   
 
In the Tunisia context, this methodology will focus specifically on the Meso and Micro level, by 
intervening at the level of support structures (capacity building) and by assisting, through different 
channels, directly the entrepreneurs both for creating and expanding enterprises.  
9 
 
 
To better meet the needs of direct beneficiaries in the four vulnerable regions of Tunisia, the project 
will develop three areas of intervention: 
 
1. Capacity building of service providers located in the target areas through Training of Trainers 
(ToT). A preliminary diagnosis will identify support structures’ priority needs, with particular 
emphasis on the development of non-financial services 4(i.a. business plan, marketing and sales, 
communication and advocacy, financial literature for new entrepreneurs, counselling and coaching). 
This intervention aims at strengthening the capacity of support structure (both public and private)  
to effectively support young graduate (s) with projects creation (new businesses) and existing 
entrepreneurs to develop and improve their projects in the target areas. 
To conclude, a certification process for counsellors will be developed within this area of 
intervention: in fact, counsellors are currently not operating in Tunisia; the Government has 
expressed its interest in develop this working profile, particularly in the emerging regions (lesson 
learnt in project Youth Employment and Migration MDG-F project in Gafsa, El Kef and Gran Tunis).  
Designed in partnership with an Italian University, this intervention aims at training and certifying a 
group of 'counsellors' (coaches) identified among the representatives of the supporting structures, 
associations, civil society and private consultants. 
Part of the training will support 40 young promoters / matrices identified (s) and project ideas (see 
intervention 3)  
 
2. Awareness raising exercise to promote entrepreneurship and business creation  
a) A series of seminars will be organized throughout the project in the four target regions. These 
seminars will be hosted in universities and Training Centres; they will address young unemployed, 
student (s), contractors, potential / existing businesses.  
The objectives of this exercise is to present to a wide audience will the following: 
 
1. information on entrepreneurial culture and opportunities for enterprise development, including 
access to adequate financial mechanisms for young people; 
2. orientation towards the more competitive economic sectors 
3. indication of available services for young (potential/existing) entrepreneurs  for enterprise 
creation and development. 
 
3. Direct technical assistance to 40 projects with a high potential for job creation, creation and 
business expansion identified particularly in the areas identified as priorities in the target regions.  
 
The technical assistance component consist of three phases, as follow: 
 
Phase 1. Identification and selection of projects 
The first phase will identify a portfolio of 80 projects (20 per region) with significant potential for 
youth employment creation.  
Criteria for selection are: potential for employment, investment costs, and relation with the selected 
value chain, innovation, environmental impact, and the overall impact on local economic 
development. 
 
Phase 2. Technical assistance  
The details of the TA will be finalized once the 40 projects are selected; a preliminary diagnosis will 
be performed to assess the real needs of existing businesses and start-up projects. This diagnosis is 
particularly 
focused 
to 
identify 
and 
/ 
or 
boost 
the 
potential 
of 
job 
creation. 
In this phase business plans and or expansion plans will be developed at the enterprise level; 
                                                 
4 BDS in most instances are the providers of non-financial services  
10 
 
technical assistance and mentoring / coaching will be also guaranteed, through direct (and indirect) 
assistance 
through 
UNIDO 
networks 
of 
experts, 
consultants 
and 
staff.  
At this level of the intervention, UNIDO will apply to selected companies the TEST methodology:  
TEST combines the essential elements of tools like Resource Efficiency & Cleaner Production (RECP), 
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) and Environmental Management Accounting (EMA) as 
part of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), applied on the basis of a comprehensive diagnosis of 
enterprise needs (Initial Review). 
As a result of the customized integration and implementation of these tools and their elements, the 
key output is the adoption of best practices, new skills and management culture, enabling the 
company to carry on the improvement journey towards sustainable entrepreneurship. 
TEST is building on management of change and addresses not only the operational level of a 
business, but also the managerial and strategic levels, along the following lines: 
• At the operational level, TEST gives priority to resource efficiency & pollution prevention 
techniques (RECP) in production processes, followed by transfer of cleaner technologies and 
pollution control solutions (end-of-pipe). Existing processes are optimized by implementing no-cost 
and low-cost measures with a short pay-back period (PBP), before a portfolio of high investment 
needing measures is put in place. 
• At the level of management systems, EMS and EMA tools are used to establish the necessary 
information management system on relevant material, energy and related financial flows in order to 
link together the strategic and operational level of the business. The EMA reveals to top 
management the real costs of production, including hidden environmental costs like non-product 
output costs. The EMS provides procedures and resources to ensure that the outputs of the RECP 
audit are implemented, sustained and further developed.  
• At the strategic level, TEST places environmental management within the broader strategy of 
environmental and corporate social responsibilities (CSR) by leading companies towards the 
adoption of sustainable enterprise strategies. 
 
 
Phase 3. Access to finance 
Technical assistance will also address the issue of funding. Particular attention will be devoted to 
supporting projects selected in accessing adequate forms of funding, in Tunisia and abroad. 
Moreover, UNIDO will mobilize its network of UNIDO ITPO to increase the access to equity funding, 
merging and/or acquisitions network and other channels.  
 
 
Component 2:  
 
HP’s Learning Initiative for Entrepreneurs (LIFE): Entrepreneurship and IT training 
programme in the scope of the UNIDO-HP partnership 
The project will support the creation and expansion of successful enterprises through HP’s Learning 
Initiative for Entrepreneurs (HP LIFE) programme which delivers an integrated ICT (information and 
communication technology) and entrepreneurship curriculum to young people around the world, in 
partnership with local training centers.  
The LIFE curriculum, developed by the Micro-Enterprise Acceleration Institute in partnership with 
HP, teaches aspiring and existing entrepreneurs the practical use of IT to solve common business 
challenges faced by entrepreneurs. The curriculum contains five entrepreneurship levels and four 
thematic business modules which can be selected as needed by the entrepreneur.  
11 
 
The HP LIFE programme currently operates through 340 Training Centers in 49 countries and has 
reached over 1.2 million people worldwide through training, access to IT and online activities. 
Through the programme 43,000 people obtained jobs and 20,000 new businesses were established. 
In 2011, HP LIFE achieved widespread recognition as a leading programme in the area of 
entrepreneurship education and workforce readiness. The announcement of HP LIFE in US President 
Obama’s Startup America Partnership in January 2011 was one of a number of high profile events in 
which the programme was showcased. A recent evaluation study of the HP LIFE programme (April 
2012) was conducted by the Education Development Center, Inc. (EDC) under the EQUIP3 Leader 
Award funded by USAID. It confirmed the HP LIFE programme to be effective in improving 
participant outcomes in terms of income, employability, and the efficiency of business operations. 
Since 2008, UNIDO has been partnering with HP to extend the reach and impact of the Learning 
Initiative for Entrepreneurs across Africa, Latin America and the Middle East. UNIDO and HP are also 
engaged in shared activities with the Education Development Centre, Inc. (EDC) to promote the 
programme in Asia.  Since 2008 the UNIDO-HP-EDC partnership achieved the following results:  
• 
Set up 122 LIFE centers in 15 countries  
• 
Certified more than 270 trainers 
• 
Trained more than 50,000 students 
• 
Created over 20,000 jobs 
The 15 participating countries include Algeria, Brazil, China, Columbia, Egypt, India, Kenya, Morocco, 
Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Tunisia, Turkey, UAE and Uganda.   
Following the well-established HP LIFE programme model in the scope of the UNIDO-HP partnership, 
this project will equip eight training centers with a set of technology (15 notebooks, 1 printer, 1 
projector per center) in the four regions (two per region) partnering with the Agency for Promotion 
of Industry (API)  and other institutions. Two HP LIFE training of trainers (ToT) will then be conducted 
to build a network of new LIFE trainers in the four regions who will in turn provide capacity building 
to aspiring entrepreneurs and existing entrepreneurs during the project duration and beyond. In 
addition, in cooperation with the API business incubators the project will provide 146 HP LIFE 
trainees (those with viable business plans/projects) additional deep-dive support (business and 
financial counselling) to foster the creation of enterprises. In the second phase of the project HP LIFE 
will train a number of Tunisian LIFE master trainers (10-12) to further expand the LIFE trainer 
network and to sustain the programme. 
The HP-LIFE programme offering face-to-face training is a component of the MDG-F joint 
programme “Engaging Tunisian youth in the MDGs” operating in El Kef, Gafsa and Grand Tunis.  That 
said, the experience of UNIDO and HP of this programme implementation offers notable benefits 
that will help inform, and increase the impact and efficiency, of this proposed project. The benefits 
include strong networks (including in el Kef, a target of this proposed project), already translated 
face-to-face LIFE curriculum (which is currently available in French and Arabic), and well-established 
support of key government institutions for the HP LIFE programme.   
In parallel, the soon-to-be-launched HP LIFE global online training platform will be rolled out in 
Tunisia nationwide through collaborations with partners at regional and national level including 
government and private institutions and universities. As a first step, the modules will be translated 
into both French and Tunisian Arabic and adapted to a local market. An environmental training 
module using IT tools will then be developed for the new online HP LIFE curriculum to increase the 
awareness and knowledge of entrepreneurs in environmental issues including to make optimal use 
12 
 
of inputs, reduce costs through energy and wastage minimization, and respect for water quality 
issues, for example.  
Through the online platform it is expected that roughly 7,000 entrepreneurs will be reached 
throughout the country and many more beyond as a direct response to this project.  
HP LIFE impact assessment tool 
The HP LIFE impact assessment tool will serve as an important means to gather results from both 
entrepreneurs and trainers. This tool, developed by HP and the Education Development Center 
(EDC) enables easier and more efficient monitoring, evaluating and reporting by integrating trainees’ 
learning activities with the programme’s reporting functions. Examples of information that could be 
tracked and assessed include: 
- 
Access to training 
- 
Basic demographic profile of users (age, gender etc.) 
- 
Satisfaction among users (including trainees, trainers, organizations/centers) 
- 
Skills gained (including IT, business concepts) 
- 
Impact of training: 
o Businesses started as a result of training 
o Jobs created / enterprises expanded 
o Employment secured by job-seekers 
o Specific impact on businesses (efficiencies, customer base, etc.) 
- 
Local/regional training capacity development / technology capacity development 
- 
Longitudinal comparisons (including pre- and post-training surveys; follow-up prompters for 
reporting (e.g. 6 months post) 
- 
Modules completed; pages viewed; etc. 
- 
Repository of success stories accessible to the HP LIFE online community / community of 
entrepreneurs established 
- 
Project awareness 
 
C.3. Target beneficiaries  
 
The target beneficiaries of the project are mainly aspiring entrepreneurs (promoters) as well as 
existing entrepreneurs in the four regions of Tunisia. Specifically, the project aims to reach roughly 
10,000 aspiring and existing entrepreneurs, including many youth and a 50% share of women. At 
least 2,000 jobs (including direct, indirect and temporary) are expected to be created through the 
project and many more livelihoods enhanced. Synergies will be created with other complementary 
programmes active in the country.  
 
 
C.4. Project outcomes and beneficiaries 
 
The project aims to reach the following two outcomes estimated to impact end-beneficiaries as 
follows:    
 
13 
 
Outcome 1: Assisted business support structures/institutions provide relevant and quality services 
to youth  
The project will enhance the knowledge and delivery capacity of regional and local business support 
institutions, training centers, universities, and vocational training institutes relating to critical areas 
around enterprise creation and development.  
• 
800 youth will attend enterprise creation training 
• 
1,000 aspiring entrepreneurs will attend enterprise promotion seminars 
• 
8,400 aspiring and existing entrepreneurs will be empowered with IT tools in business to 
increase their business efficiency and growth through the HP LIFE training (1,400 in face-to-
face and 7,000 via the HP LIFE online training platform) 
• 
146 LIFE trainees will receive business counselling following their LIFE trainings 
• 
400 entrepreneurs will be trained on IT tools for environmental issues in business 
 
The project aims to produce at least 400 jobs (including direct, indirect and temporary) through 
outcome 1.  
400 jobs will be created through the provision of practical training programmes to thousands of 
aspiring entrepreneurs involving enterprise creation trainings and the Learning Initiative for 
Entrepreneurs HP LIFE to reach 1,400 students face-to-face as well as individual business counselling 
for at least 146 aspiring entrepreneurs. 400 jobs is estimated on the impact and result of the HP LIFE 
global programme.   
In line with the HP LIFE regional report for Africa, Brazil and the Middle East early 2012 a total 
number of 5,505 students were trained on HP LIFE face-to-face, 448 businesses were established 
(8%) and 1,145 (20%) trainees obtained employment. The HP LIFE outcome evaluation report of April 
2012 found that the HP LIFE training is effective in improving participants’ outcomes in terms of 
income, employability and efficiency of operations based on a survey of HP LIFE current and past 
trainees in China, India, Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa.   
 
Outcome 2: New and existing enterprises improve their business performances and create jobs 
The project will provide direct technical assistance to targeted enterprises with high employment 
creation opportunities driving sectors in the four regions. 
• 
60 SMEs will receive direct technical assistance by UNIDO experts with the final aim to 
create sustainable and decent jobs 
• 
10 projects will be presented to national and international investors for equity or direct 
investment, engaging as appropriate ongoing projects in Tunisia  
 
The project aims to produce at least 1,600 jobs (including direct, indirect and temporary) through 
outcome 2.  
 
The related logical framework is in Annex D.  The suggested project timelines are provided in Annex 
E.  
 
 
 
14 
 
C.5. Gender aspects 
The project will build on a gender analysis in Tunisia. A gender specialist, hired under preparatory 
assistance financed by the Italian contribution, has initiated a gender analysis and will be hired again 
in the inception phase of the project to provide operational guidance on gender related issues.  
 
 
D. PARTNER LINKAGES 
 
The project also advances and builds on the priorities and programming of the key alliance partners. 
These areas are described below. 
 
 
Hewlett Packard 
The focus outlined in this proposal is highly consistent with HP’s business and social innovation 
objectives and will serve as an important proof point of HP’s commitment to entrepreneurship and 
education in the region and beyond. This project also supports a complementary strategic pillar: 
sustainability. Indeed, in late 2011 HP’s Office of Global Social Innovation merged with the 
environmental sustainability office to enable a more integrated approach to HP’s engagement 
worldwide.  
The project also reinforces HP’s commitment to this region where it has recently launched a 
strategy to accelerate growth in Africa. HP’s expansion in Africa through the opening of new offices 
will support the development of a strong IT industry, which will underpin sustainable economic 
growth, helping to create employment, stability and life-changing opportunities across the 
continent. In Tunisia, HP announced the opening of a customer help center that is expected to 
create 800 jobs.  
Finally, this project symbolizes the importance HP places on partnerships, including in support of 
Africa’s IT and education sectors. For example, HP is investing in a series of collaborations and 
initiatives with governments, universities and local communities to achieve the shared goal of 
driving responsible, sustainable growth.  HP signed MOUs with leading universities in expansion 
countries to help prepare local university students with the skills and experience required for a 
career in the IT industry. 
 
USAID 
USAID is committed to support public-private collaboration that at once improves development 
outcomes and supports US commercial interests.  It is in part because HP applauds and indeed 
subscribes to this approach that USAID and HP signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on 
September 23, 2011.   
Like other Alliance Partners, USAID is visibly committed to support enterprise development 
including, very specifically, entrepreneurship. USAID has invested substantially in higher education to 
produce workforce with the relevant skills to support country development goals.  Similarly, USAID 
and the United States Government more broadly have indicated strong support for Tunisia’s 
economic and democratic aspirations.   
 
This project will align strongly with USAID engagement in Tunisia. For example, USAID is planning a 
major economic growth project in the high-growth information and communications technology 
15 
 
(ICT) sector to support small and medium enterprise development, as well as skills training and job 
placement in local firms. USAID is planning several higher education partnerships between U.S. 
colleges and Tunisian technical/vocational training institutes; these partnerships will also engage 
local private sector companies to expand employment opportunities for institute graduates.  
 
This ICT initiative offers strong potential for linkages with this project and other Alliance partner 
initiatives outlined above.  Moreover, through this project additional connections will be pursued 
with other US Government initiatives: 
 
• 
The www.ednaccess.com platform, the Embassy toolkit (and its country-specific iterations) 
and the Global Entrepreneurship Initiative (GEI) quarterly newsletter offer opportunities for 
greater dissemination of the project objectives as well as being useful resources for 
entrepreneurs that are reached through this program. This proposed project can help 
facilitate additional linkages and impact of these US-inspired platforms.   
 
• 
The US-North Africa Partnership for Economic Opportunity network of US and North African 
business leaders, entrepreneurs, civil society and public sector leaders aims to foster job 
creation, regional cooperation, and entrepreneurship, with a focus on youth. Given the 
presence of a Tunisian PNB-NAPEO Advisory Board, there is a potential to use this proposed 
Alliance project as a springboard for cross-border collaboration across the Magreb region.  
 
• 
The USG supported youth council platforms in Africa provide an opportunity for linkages 
with the new HP LIFE eLearning solution.  Youth councils could be interested to position this 
as a relevant resource for current or aspiring young entrepreneurs that they aim to support.  
Similarly, the networks developed under this project could help drive interest to the GEI. 
 
• 
There are also potential synergies with the US Department of State’s Global Innovation 
through Science and Technology (GIST) initiative. This initiative, aiming to spur economic 
advancement through science and technology-based innovation in countries across the 
Middle East, North Africa, and Asia, is already scheduled to offer start-up “Boot Camps” in 
Tunisia this July 2012. Efforts to develop synergies between these initiatives could yield 
considerable pay-offs in terms of reach, impact and visibility of the two programs. 
 
• 
Other regional events the US State Department is planning, such as the one coming up in 
Abu Dhabi, in December offer a means to share best practices and enhance the visibility of 
this project.  
 
• 
The ImagiNation supported e-mentorship program could be integrated including by tapping 
the talents and expertise of HP’s employees to support entrepreneurs in Tunisia and 
elsewhere, especially in light of the HP LIFE volunteer program that already exists.  
 
• 
The USAID is also a supporter of the Center for Entrepreneurship and Executive 
Development (CEED/SEAF) activities with an interesting focus on access to finance. This 
network will also be explored for connections to this project.  
 
Government of Italy  
 
Since 2004 the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MoFA) has been giving high priority to those 
interventions focused on supporting local production and the promotion of industrial and 
commercial relations between entrepreneurs of both countries. The MoFA promotes the growth of 
16 
 
the private sector and its competitiveness as a sustainable way to create productive and decent 
employment and attract foreign investment in Tunisia.  
 
The latest strategies for protecting natural resources and protection of the environment (Rio, Kyoto 
Protocol, programs to combat desertification) are also viewed as greatly important to interventions 
on the environment, especially to combat desertification and protect the marine and coastal areas. 
 
The major initiatives in Tunisia in progress that are funded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Italy 
and that will support the success of this current initiative are:   
 
• 
Industry and Handicraft:  credit line for SMEs; 
 
• 
Agriculture and Fishing: 
o Creation and rehabilitation of date palm groves in the region of Rjim Maatoug 
o Socio-economic protection and enhancement of environmental resources in the 
North-West Region (Tabarka) 
o Oasis Chenini – sustainable management of natural resources 
o Actions to support vegetable production 
 
• 
Environment: 
o Reforestation of the mountains of Tataouine 
o Construction of three landfills for municipal solid waste and its transfer centers in 
the governorates of Mahdia, Tozeur and Zaghouan  
 
E. PARTNERS AND ROLES 
 
Core Partners 
 
The proposed collaboration is between USAID, HP, and UNIDO and the Government of Italy  
 
As the primary implementing partner, UNIDO will be responsible for the overall management and 
implementation of the program through the involvement of UNIDO Headquarters’ staff and UNIDO 
field staff. UNIDO will establish a clear governance mechanism to ensure timely and regular 
reporting to the Alliance Partners. The UNIDO business model also encourages close consultation 
with donors on strategic decisions in order to maximize cross fertilization among partners of know-
how and good practices. UNIDO is committed to draw close linkages between the project and other 
UNIDO, USAID and other related projects in Tunisia to increase the impact of this project. The role of 
UNIDO and its team is elaborated in Annex A.  
 
HP-Sustainability and Social Innovation (SSI) is responsible to provide its cash contribution of USD 
300K to UNIDO and offers access to its flagship program HP LIFE to support this project. Consistent 
with its shared value approach, HP SSI will also remain a committed and engaged partner 
throughout the project duration.  HP SSI can be counted on to provide inputs on key project 
milestones, communications and outreach strategies and products, for example.   
 
With respect to HP LIFE specifically, HP is offering as part of this partnership access to the existing 
face-to-face LIFE curriculum5 as well as the new HP LIFE online platform currently in development 
                                                 
55 LIFE curriculum was developed by MEA-I. 
17 
 
with Education Development Center, Inc. (EDC).  HP will also look to cover the related costs of 
hosting the solution on any cloud platform.  Playing a leadership role on HP LIFE related activities, 
the HP team will draw from LIFE materials and approaches developed in other countries which can 
be adapted for the Tunisian context and will explore how the HP LIFE Ambassadors program could 
also work actively to leverage the successes and undertakings experienced in Tunisia for 
dissemination and adaption in other countries.  In this regard it will provide regular updates to the 
Alliance Partners and provide opportunities for co-branding and collaboration in other countries as 
well which could extend the project impact and visibility beyond Tunisian borders.   
 
HP SSI has a strong interest to create synergies with other international and prominent thought 
leaders in entrepreneurship and will be actively looking to identify and forge related collaboration in 
support of the program, working closely with USAID and UNIDO. 
 
USAID, as the key donor/funding agency, will provide a portion of the cash funding (USD$1,500,000).  
In addition, USAID will be invited to provide inputs on key project milestones and tap its extensive 
networks for communications and dissemination. Moreover, linkages with other USAID and USG 
initiatives in Tunisia will be sought.  
 
The Government of Italy is providing financial assistance to the project. The Italian Cooperation in 
Tunisia will be actively engaged during the duration of the project. The Italian Cooperation will also 
guarantee that other Italian funded projects in Tunisia are synergetic, whenever possible with the 
project. 
 
Tunisian Counterparts 
 
Tunisian counterparts in both the public and private sectors will play an important role in the success 
of this project.  Based on various consultations both national and regional partners are keenly 
supportive of this initiative.   
 
In line with the Government of Tunisia’s decentralization plan, it is proposed that UNIDO establish a 
National Steering Committee (NSC) as well as one Regional Technical Committee (RTC) in each of the 
four selected regions. The purpose would be to provide guidance to maximize impact, reach and 
sustainability of project activities.  These bodies would not be decision-making bodies but rather 
established to provide inputs on an occasional basis and to generate greater buy-in and ownership 
of the project’s activities.  The core decision-making authorities would lie with Alliance Partners. 
 
The proposed list of national and regional committee members and draft terms of reference are 
included in Annex B. Certain Tunisian partners will play particularly key roles in this project: 
 
Ministry of Industry and Commerce: main government counterpart of the project, this ministry will 
be part of the NSC, and through its regional representative will take part in the RTC. Under clear 
indication of Mr. Ridai Klai (Director of Industrial Infrastructure) the project will seek cooperation 
with the Complex Industrielle Competitive (CIC) where present in a region (CICs are created through 
a Public Private Partnership mechanism to assist the development and growth of SMEs including by 
identifying on-going and potential projects and attracting investors).  
 
Ministry of Regional Development and Planning:  given the regional dimension of the project 
(decentralized at regional level) the involvement of this ministry and its regional antennas is crucial.  
As a member of the NSC, the ministry will also provide access to qualitative and quantitative 
18 
 
information on the regions touched by the project (intelligence unit). Its antennas in the region will 
be part of the RTC (regional technical committee).  
 
Ministry of Employment and Vocational Training: member of the NSC; through its antenna in the 
regions (centres d’ affaires, etc.) will be instrumental in the implementation of the project, 
particularly for the promotion of entrepreneurship among young people and for provision of training 
in identified areas (Enterprise development, etc.) . 
 
Consortia of Technical Centers: provide training of trainers to selected institutions on the adapted 
MED-TEST; participation in the RTC where possible; provision of technical assistance to the 
Identification Team during the companies identification process; provide technical capacity building 
to companies when required. 
 
CITET: Training of Trainers (ToT) of adapted MED-TEST, it will provide technical assistance to 
identified projects in the field of environment or projects integrating environmental aspects and 
cleaner production technologies.   
 
Agence de Promotion d’Industrie (API): main counterpart of the project at regional level; member 
of the NSC and through its regional antennas member of the RTC; assistance in the identification of 
the beneficiaries companies (i.e. through the intention of investments record); main partner for HP 
LIFE activities building on API’s LIFE trainer network and valuable experience in HP LIFE training 
implementations in Tunisia since 2008; the project will closely work with business incubators at the 
governorate level (HP LIFE; Green business plan module); incubation through the business 
incubators to identified projects   
 
Agence Nationale pour l’Emploi et le Travail Indépendant (ANETI): ANETI is in charge of animating 
the job market at national and regional level through a network of regional offices of employment 
and self-employment. ANETI will be the recipient of the Green Business Plan ToT; member of the 
RTC; partner in HP LIFE activities building on its LIFE trainer network and LIFE training experience in 
Tunisia 
 
Centres d’affaires d’intéret public économique (CAIPE): The Centres d’affaires aim to facilitate the 
implementation of projects and offer required services to promoters or investors to launch their 
projects. The centers will be recipients of the Green Business Plan ToT; members of the RTC (see also 
Ministry of Employment and Vocational Training) and potential partners in HP LIFE.  
 
Instituts Supérieurs des Etudes Technologiques (ISET): The higher institutions for technological 
studies are situated in all four regions targeted by the project; ISET will be a recipient of the Green 
Business Plan Training of trainers and the capacity building training in the promotion of culture 
among young entrepreneurs.  
 
Complexes Industrielles Competitives: where installed, the CIC can play an instrumental role in the 
identification of the companies; member of the RTC (where possible).  
 
Centres de Jeunes Dirigeants d’Entreprises (CDJ): The CDJ representative will take part in the RTC 
providing an independent and pragmatic vision towards the committee in view of its role of 
19 
 
representing young entrepreneurs vis-à-vis the Government and the financial sector; their technical 
expertise will play a crucial role in determining the final selection of projects. 
 
Conféderation des Entreprises Citoyennes de Tunisie (CONECT):  As a new organisation in Tunisia, 
CONECT will be member of the RTC and will participate in the final selection of projects. Currently, CONECT has 
offices in Kairouan and in Kasserine and plans to launch new offices in the other regions addressed in this 
project.      
 
F. SUSTAINABILITY 
 
This project by design intervenes at two levels: the first set of interventions aiming at building the 
capacity of local support institutions at governorate level; and the second set aims to improve both 
the productive capacity of identified companies in the selected lagging regions, while building the 
capacity of private sector consulting firms (technical assistance) and /or CSOs as business 
development service providers. These help lay the groundwork for activities that will be sustained 
beyond the project’s duration and sustainable results in the interim.  
 
The programme will reinforce the support structure by improving the quality of services provided 
and expand their portfolio (green business plan and HP LIFE). By increasing the quality and the 
portfolio of services that can be provided by local support structure it is expected that the ultimate 
beneficiaries (young people and entrepreneurs) will also benefit from that; the central government 
should than be inclined to continue and strengthen the support both in terms of budget support and 
human resources support to  the local institutions. Moreover, by capitalizing on HP’s multi-million 
dollar investment in an on-line HP LIFE interactive curriculum, the dependency on any one set of 
trainers for in-person training is reduced. 
  
The programme will also partner with private BDS (business development service- consulting firms 
or NGOs) providers that will be contracted to provide specific technical assistance to selected 
companies. By engaging them in the project, their income/revenues are expected to increase and 
other companies in the lagging regions may be drawn toward using these BDS thus promoting 
private sector development in the regions.   
  
The focus on regional interventions is well-founded. Tunisia has witnessed for years a centralization 
process that weakened local support institutions of the Government. In the aftermath of the Jasmin 
revolution, the transitional government of Tunisia identified as a priority the strengthening and 
capacity building of local support structure.  
 
Prior to this proposal preparation, UNIDO ensured the engagement and support of the Government 
of Tunisia, mainly the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Vocational Training and 
Employment and the Ministry of Regional Development.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20 
 
G. RISKS 
 
This project is assessed to be of low risk (see Figure 1) 
 
FIGURE 1 
Description of risk 
Likelihood and remedial measures 
Counterparts (government agencies, technical 
institutions, NGOs) inputs not provided or 
delayed 
Low, as UNIDO has been closely cooperating 
with the project counterparts (API, ANETI, 
technical institutions) over the past few years on 
other projects and a regular contact is 
maintained by UNIDO field office with these 
institutions  
Low level of participation from targeted 
entrepreneurs, youth, women and targeted 
support institutions 
Low/medium, as local partner institutions are 
selected based on their access to entrepreneurs, 
youth, women, project promoters 
Youth reject the training, counselling and 
technical assistance, as they are more interested 
in the financing 
Low, as the project communicates at the outset 
the business counselling and technical assistance 
as a means to access finance 
Difficulty in identifying and finding projects of 
young promoters 
Low/medium – a suitable communication 
campaign will be done to meet 
expectations/interests of young promoters and 
cultural aspects  
 
 
 
H. MONITORING, REPORTING AND EVALUATION 
 
The project will be subject to a reporting, review and evaluation process in line with the prevailing 
UNIDO policies and procedures and be responsive to partner/donor inputs and reporting 
requirements.   
 
In short, an M&E team will at the outset propose a strategy for the entire projects’ activities and 
work with national counterparts to develop their own. The Alliance Partners will then be consulted 
to ensure the M&E is aligned with its reporting needs.  The UNIDO project management team will 
prepare quarterly progress reports and a final report at the end of the project to share with donors. 
 
Indicators for tracking the objective, outcomes and outputs as well as their means of verification are 
included already in the Logical Framework (see Annex E). Progress and final reports will include 
reporting on the project indicators. UNIDO is committed to designing an M&E framework that 
among other metrics will track and assess the impact of programming on men versus women. 
 
The HP LIFE impact assessment tool as described in Component 2 of the UNIDO approach will be 
applied for monitoring, evaluating and reporting the HP LIFE training results.    
 
Throughout the project, continuous communication between the local counterpart institutions, 
UNIDO Tunisia/Headquarters and the donors will ensure a smooth and successful implementation. 
In addition, progress in project activities will be reviewed jointly, according to specific needs for 
reviewing.  
 
 
21 
 
I. 
COMMUNICATIONS 
 
Once the project is approved, a draft communications plan will be developed and agreed to by all 
partners. The Plan will articulate strategies to target a handful of key audiences including at the 
national and international levels and stakeholders both external and internal to the project. 
 
At a general level, communications objectives with external partners will aim to: 
 
- 
Promote and explain the project, including its objectives and expected outcomes to secure 
engagement, involvement and support for project activities of key stakeholders including 
end beneficiaries. 
- 
Engage with target audiences, (e.g. young, unemployed, trainers, other donors/program 
implementers/financial institutions), helping to create and build a Tunisian-wide community 
successful entrepreneurs, mentors etc 
- 
Demonstrate the abilities and positive participation of the donors (USAID, GOI and HP) and 
the implementing partner (UNIDO) as relevant agents in building the private sector driven 
economy in Tunisia and in offering a model for replication elsewhere in the country and 
beyond Tunisia’s borders. 
- 
Develop a cadre of stories and case studies shared between all donors and partners which 
can be held or promoted on multiple communication platforms. 
 
Preliminary thinking around objectives and possible response strategies are summarized below: 
 
 
Communication Objectives/External 
 
Strategies 
1. To promote and explain the project, 
including its objectives and expected 
outcomes to target audiences and 
stakeholders 
a) Develop and agree overall plan 
b) Use social media to engage students, 
entrepreneurs and 
c) Traditional media communication for 
specific stakeholder groups 
2. Engage with target audiences (e.g. 
young, unemployed, trainers, other 
program implementers/funders) within 
the project – Creating and building a 
Tunisian-wide community, (and beyond) 
of these entrepreneurs, mentors, etc 
a. Develop, 
agree 
and 
implement 
comprehensive digital media plan which 
promotes 
the 
program 
through 
websites, Facebook page and other 
opportunities 
b. Strategic networking and outreach to 
forge synergies between this project and 
other projects investing in systemic and 
enterprise/individual specific support 
around entrepreneurship  
3. Demonstrate the abilities and positive 
participation of the donors (USAID, GOI, 
HP) and the implementing partner 
(UNIDO) as relevant agents in building 
the private sector driven economy in 
Tunisia 
a. Use press and social media to position 
the 
program 
and 
partners 
with 
consistent messaging 
b. Present at key global conferences with a 
coordinated presentation 
4. Develop a cadre of stories and case 
studies shared between all donors and 
partners which can be held or promoted 
on all communication platforms 
a. Encourage the “feeding in” and sharing 
of stories which can be used by partners 
and beneficiaries by providing a simple 
“story tool format” 
22 
 
 
Linked to the issue of governance an internal communication plan targeting project partners will also 
be developed to: 
 
- 
Maintain regular updates and information exchanges so issues and opportunities are met in 
an efficient and effective manner. 
- 
Ensure relevant, internal stakeholders per organization are provided with timely 
information, data and stories so any critical decisions can be made as required for the 
project. 
 
Upon project approval, UNIDO will initiate the drafting of a launch plan. It could include: 
- 
Development of a media kit (one pager on the project; one pager on the donors and their 
activities in Tunisia; one pager on UNIDO; possible joint press release on the launch) 
- 
Participation of partners at a launch event in Tunis (e.g. around the Youth Forum in 
November 2012) and possible press conference on the occasion of the official launch 
- 
Use of digital media such as: blogs, tweets, and project/partner Facebook pages 
 
The USAID communications and branding policy will apply as per the MOU with HP and cooperative 
agreement with UNIDO, in due regard for the Parties respective legal, policy and procedural 
requirements.  
 
J. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
 
Provisions relating to intellectual property will be finalized with the grant/cooperative agreement.  
 
K. PRIOR OBLIGATIONS AND PREREQUISITES 
 
The implementation of the project can start as soon as UNIDO’s and the donors’ respective instances 
have approved this project document and the donors have transferred the funds agreed upon i.e. in 
cash including support costs:   
 
EUR 859,000 by the Government of Italy 
USD 1.500,000 by USAID 
USD    300,000 by Hewlett Packard  
 
 
L. LEGAL CONTEXT 
 
The Standard Basic Cooperation Agreement signed by the Government of Tunisia and UNIDO on 11 
May 1994 in Vienna effective on 20 January 1995 will apply to the subject project.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23 
 
ANNEX A: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION TEAM 
 
By design, this project requires an important investment on human resources, both technical than 
managerial positions; given that no procurement is de facto foreseen, the project is centred on 
capacity building and skills development through direct technical assistance; to pursue such 
approach, it is necessary and instrumental to invest in human resources both national (regional 
coordinators, technical experts) and international (CTAs, backstopping officers, international 
experts). 
 
UNIDO project coordination arrangements 
A close cooperation and regular communication between UNIDO HQ project managers and involved 
experts and UNIDO Tunis Representative and field staff will ensure an effective project coordination 
and implementation. All experts recruited in the field (international and national) will report to 
UNIDO Tunis Representative and project managers.   
 
The proposed project implementation team will include the following positions: 
 
UNIDO International Expert for Enterprise Creation and Growth (part time): International Expert; 
he/she will provide guidance, technical assistance and managerial support from UNIDO HQs to the 
team in Tunisia. He/She will manage and monitor all project activities related to enterprise creation 
and development which comprise the recruitment of experts, preparation of sub-contracts, financial 
monitoring of activities and ensure the alignment with UNIDO methodologies and apporachss of 
trainings and workshops. He/She will ensure that the project is implemented in the new UNIDO 
programme management system using SAP – this system provides greater accountability, 
transparency and reporting to the donors at any given implementation stage. The backstopping 
officer will be constantly involved in the implementation of the project, thus guaranteeing 
managerial support and alignment with UNIDO and donors’ implementation strategies. The expert 
will directly liaise with the UNIDO Representative in Tunisia, the CTAs, the donors and the regional 
project coordinators. 
 
Terms of reference: The required profile of the expert is both technical and managerial with strong 
knowledge of Youth Entrepreneurship, Enterprise Creation and Development, and generally Private 
Sector Development.  The expert should also possess a relevant project management experience, 
possibly in North African countries. The expert will be requested to actively participate and animate 
the interaction among several different partners and institutions: therefore proven communication 
and intercultural communication competencies are required.  
 
Reporting: The expert will report to Donors and the UNIDO Representative in Tunisia.  
 
 
UNIDO International Expert for HP LIFE (part time): International expert, he/she will provide 
guidance, technical assistance and managerial support for all HP LIFE project activities from UNIDO 
HQs to the project team in Tunisia. He/She will manage and monitor all project activities related to 
HP LIFE which comprise the recruitment of project experts, preparation of sub-contracts, financial 
monitoring and organization of local/regional HP LIFE training events (MTOT, TOTs, LIFE trainings for 
entrepreneurs) and workshops in close coordination with the National Project Coordinator for HP 
LIFE. He/She will ensure that the project is implemented in the new UNIDO programme 
management system using SAP – this system provides greater accountability, transparency and 
reporting to the donors at any given implementation stage. The expert will directly liaise with the 
UNIDO Representative in Tunisia, the CTA for USAID, the donors and the national project 
coordinator for HP LIFE. The backstopping officer will be constantly involved in the implementation 
24 
 
of the project, thus guaranteeing managerial support and alignment with UNIDO and donors 
implementation strategies.  
 
Terms of reference: The expert should have proven project management experience, strong 
knowledge of entrepreneurship and IT training programmes, preferentially in North African 
countries. Knowledge of youth entrepreneurship, the HP LIFE programme and curriculum and French 
will be an asset. The expert will be requested to actively participate and animate the interaction 
among different project partners and institutions; therefore proven communication and intercultural 
communication competencies are required.  
 
Reporting: The expert will report to Donors and the UNIDO Representative in Tunisia 
 
International Expert (Italy) based in Tunisia: International expert based in Tunisia responsible to 
technically support and oversee all project activities financed by Italy. The expert will be in charge of 
supervising, providing guidance and supporting the network of Regional project coordinators. 
He/She will also be the interface between the project and the National Steering Committee, as well 
as national partners and donors. The expert will directly liaise with the UNIDO representative in 
Tunis, the backstopping officer in Vienna UNIDO HQ and regional project coordinators. He/She will 
be responsible to present the project and inform the national counterparts on the various stages of 
implementation, and will be in charge of providing adequate information vis-à-vis the National 
steering committee. He/she will create linkages between the project and other Italy financed 
projects in Tunisia. The expert will be responsible to overlook the project subcontractors at national 
level.  The expert will be engaged in the communication, advocacy as well as monitoring and 
evaluation strategies (excluding HP LIFE).  
 
Reporting: The expert will report directly to the UNIDO Representative in Tunisia and to UNIDO 
backstopping officers/experts at HQs. 
 
 
International Expert (USAID) based in Tunisia:  International expert based in Tunisia responsible to 
technically support and oversee all project activities financed by USAID. The expert will be in charge 
of supervising, providing guidance and supporting the network of Regional project coordinators. 
He/she will be the interface between the project and the National Steering Committee, as well as 
national partners and donors. The expert will directly liaise with the UNIDO representative in Tunis, 
the backstopping officers in UNIDO HQs and regional project coordinators. He/She will be 
responsible to present the project and inform the national counterparts on the various stages of 
implementation and will be in charge of providing adequate information vis-à-vis the National 
steering committee. He/she will create linkages between the project and other USAID financed 
projects in Tunisia. The expert will be responsible to overlook the project subcontractors at national 
level and the expert will be engaged in the communication, advocacy as well as monitoring and 
evaluation strategies, including HP LIFE.   
 
Reporting: The expert will report directly to the UNIDO Representative in Tunisia and to UNIDO 
backstopping officers/experts at HQs. 
 
Project assistants: 2 project assistants, one at UNIDO HQs and one at UNIDO field office will manage 
the administrative, logistical and procurement project needs.  
 
Reporting: The project assistant in the field office directly reports to the international experts 
(USAID, Italy) and the UNIDO Representative in Tunisia. The project assistant at UNIDO HQs directly 
reports to the Backstopping Officers/Experts at HQs.  
25 
 
 
Regional project coordinator (x 4, one per region): each regional coordinator expert will be in charge 
of coordinating project activities at the regional level; ensuring the correct flow of information 
among the project partners at regional level; providing an interface between the beneficiaries, the 
regional partners and the Project Coordinator; monitoring implementation of the project; providing 
guidance to project experts and subcontractors at regional level. He/she will also facilitate the 
preparation of the Regional Technical Committee meeting, in close collaboration with the Regional 
Governor. 
 
Reporting: The Regional project coordinators will report to the CTAs, the UNIDO Backstopping 
Officers and the UNIDO Representative in Tunisia.  
 
National project coordinator (HP LIFE): national expert in charge of coordinating and supporting HP 
LIFE project activities in all four regions, monitoring LIFE training implementations at the LIFE 
training centers, promoting the use of the HP LIFE online training platform and supporting the 
development of the HP LIFE environmental training module. The national project coordinator should 
have relevant working experience in entrepreneurship/IT programmes and enterprise creation and 
development. Knowledge of the HP LIFE curriculum and working experience as a trainer will be an 
asset. The national project coordinator for HP LIFE will directly report to the UNIDO Backstopping 
Officer for HP LIFE and will liaise closely with the International experts (Italy, USAID) based in Tunisia 
and the Regional project coordinators 
 
Reporting: The National project coordinator for HP LIFE will report to the international expert 
(USAID), the Backstopping Officers and the UNIDO Representative in Tunisia.  
 
Environmental (TEST) and Green Business Plan Module (Certification) developers 
The team formed by an international expert and a national expert will develop a module that could 
ultimately lead to a certification on Green Business Planning – certification that would be taken up 
by regional Institutions to University and TVET students, young entrepreneurs and SMEs. It will be 
based on UNIDO successful experience of the MED-TEST. The team will also be responsible to 
provide ToT to regional entities such as incubators staff, ISET, centre de formation professionelle, 
ANETI antennas, among others.  
 
Reporting: The Environmental and Green Business Plan Module developers will report to the 
international experts (USAID, Italy) the Backstopping Officers and the UNIDO Representative in 
Tunisia 
 
Projects identification team 
UNIDO will recruit a national expert to identify potential or existing enterprises in the selected 
regions. The team is responsible to gather information on new and existing high potential 
enterprises in the four selected regions; at this stage consultation with local and regional SMEs 
promoting bodies is instrumental. The expert will produce a least of 120 potential projects to be 
submitted to the each Regional Technical Committee for review and endorsement. 
 
Reporting: The Environmental and Green Business Plan Module developer will report to the 
international experts (USAID, Italy), the Backstopping Officers/Experts at UNIDO HQs and the UNIDO 
Representative in Tunisia 
 
Technical Assistance Team (max. 5 experts):  The project will allocate funds to provide direct 
technical assistance (market assess, feasibility study, business plan development, etc.) to the 
selected projects; to provide TA the project will identify a group of technical experts in those sectors 
26 
 
where the selected projects operate to provide direct technical assistance. (under output 2.2 and 
2.3). The experts would be hired on a part-time basis and would cover all four regions.  
 
Reporting: The Technical Assistance Team will report to the International Experts (USAID, Italy), the 
Backstopping Officers and the UNIDO Representative in Tunisia 
 
 
Monitoring and Evaluation Expert: One international and one national expert will develop an M&E 
strategy for the entire project; tools and good practices from partners will be captured and applied 
when possible. The national expert will also assist API to develop a strategy as main counterpart, to 
better structure their M&E approach/strategy.  The time-tested existing global M&E system for HP 
LIFE trainings and programme impact will be applied in Tunisia. The HP LIFE project coordinator in 
close collaboration with the HP LIFE national coordinator will support the application of the global 
HP LIFE M& E system in Tunisia in the framework of the project.  
 
Reporting: The Monitoring and Evaluation Experts will report to the international experts (Italy, 
USAID), the Backstopping Officers/Experts and the UNIDO Representative in Tunisia 
 
 
Communication and Advocacy Expert: two national experts will be responsible to develop a 
communication strategy to promote the project vis-à-vis various audiences [e.g. national and 
international audience, development community, youth, etc] 
 
Reporting: The Communication and Advocacy Experts will report to the International experts (Italy, 
USAID), the Backstopping Officers/Experts and the UNIDO Representative in Tunisia.
27 
 
 
 
ANNEX B: NATIONAL AND REGIONAL COMMITTEES 
 
National Steering Committee (NSC) 
The NSC will be established to advise on the overall implementation of project activities to include 
its alignment from a technical aspect and its alignment with the priorities of the Tunisian 
Government and with the strategies of the Donors. The NSC will be composed of UNIDO as a 
convener and facilitator and representatives of: 
 
Government of Italy 
USAID 
HP 
Ministry of Industry 
Ministry of Regional Development and Planning 
Ministry of Employment and Vocational Training 
 
Regional Technical Committees can also be invited to take part in the NSC if suggested by the core 
members. The Committee will meet twice a year.  
 
Regional Technical Committee  
In line with the Government of Tunisia’s decentralization strategy the project implementation 
structure will be decentralized at regional level. To ensure the correct implementation of the project 
a Regional Technical Committee will be formed by: 
 
• 
Regional Governor (convener and chairperson) 
• 
API representative (main counterpart) 
• 
Representatives of MoI and MoE (Bureau regional d’emploi) 
• 
Regional project coordinators  
• 
Other service providers where and when needed (centres des affaires, ANETI, etc) 
 
Terms of reference of the RTC 
The Regional technical committee will be tasked to:  
• 
Discuss implementation issues of the project and provide assistance whenever feasible 
• 
Help ensure the project is aligned with regional development strategies 
• 
Take stock of results  and impact of the project 
• 
Prepare reports to the National Steering Committee 
• 
Garner support for the project with multiple stakeholders  
28 
 
 
ANNEX C: BUDGET SHEET SUMMARY (in USD) 
 
Budget lines 
Description budget-lines 
Total in USD 
Italian UB share in USD 
HP share6 in USD 
USAID share USD 
11-00 
International Experts 
672,200 
                                  335,000 
7,200 
330,000 
13-00 
Project assistants 
78,000 
72,000 
1,000 
5,000 
15-00 
Project expert travel 
(national/international) 
52,300 
27,500 
 
24,800 
16-00 
Staff travel 
(national/international) 
15,000 
10,000 
 
5,000 
17-00 
National experts 
836,778 
314,000 
25,000 
497,778 
21-00 
Sub-contracting 
(institutions) 
512,527 
78,000 
62,727 
371,800 
33-00 
In-country trainings and 
workshops 
179,056 
93,000 
 
86,056 
45-00 
Equipment 
217,800 
41,000 
176,800 
 
51-00 
Miscellaneous 
37,000 
30,000 
7,000 
Total net (without 
support costs) 
 
2,600,661 
1,000,500 
 
272,727 
1,327,434 
91-00  
Support costs7 
329,904 
130,065 
27,273 
172,566 
Total cash (incl. 
support costs) 
 
 USD 2,930,565 
USD 1,130,565 
USD 300,000 
USD 1,500,000 
                                                 
6 HP will additionally provide in-kind contributions in terms of travel, personnel costs and intellectual property (HP LIFE), estimated at USD 410,000  
7 Support costs: 13% USAID, 13% GOI, 10% HP 
29 
 
ANNEX D: LOGICAL FRAMEWORK 
 
 
Intervention logic 
Objectively verifiable 
indicators 
Sources of 
verification 
Assumptions 
Donors/Budget in USD 
Development 
goal / impact 
Create job opportunities for young people in 
four vulnerable regions, by developing new and 
existing companies 
• 
# of jobs for youth created (KPI 
11) increased by 5% in 2014 in 
the targeted project regions.  
• 
Share of jobs created for young 
females will be 50%  
• Employment surveys 
• Quantitative data from 
Governorates and 
employment centres   
 
 
Outcome 1 
Assisted business support structures/institutions 
provide relevant and quality services to youth   
 
 
 
• # of SMEs  accessing support 
institutions’ services increase 
of 25% by end 2014 
• Users’ survey 
 
• Institutions’ 
quantitative reports  
 
 
 
 
• Institutions have 
absorptive capacity 
• Business environment 
remains conducive to 
enterprises 
development 
 
Outcome 2 
 
 
New and existing enterprises improve their 
business performances and create jobs  
• Improved resource efficiency 
(material, water, waste, 
energy) 
• # jobs created 
• At least 50% of assisted 
companies adopt the TEST 
methodology 
 
• Firm surveys  
• Statistics on business 
registration 
• Employment record  
 
• Political situation in 
Tunisia remains stable 
and private and public 
sectors continue to 
employ young people 
and investors expand 
their portfolio of 
projects 
• Financial institutions 
invest in SMEs 
development incl. 
green productive 
sectors  
 
COMPONENT 1 
Methodologies:  
Enterprise creation and development 
UNIDO TEST 
 
 
 
 
 
Output 1.1 
 
Market assessment completed at the project 
outset to ensure for a demand driven approach 
• Local demands 
assessed/analyzed by sectors 
• Report/market 
assessment 
• Availability of qualified 
national expert 
USAID:$10,000 total 
$10,000 national expert 
 
 
Output 1.2 
 
Support institutions are strengthened in the field 
of enterprise creation, growth and 
competitiveness  
• At least 16 entrepreneurship 
promotion seminars  (4 per 
region x 2 each year) will be 
• M&E reports from 
support institutions  
• M&E reports  
• Institutions are able to 
provide support to 
higher number of 
Italy: $129,000 total 
 
$43,000  (entrepreneurship 
30 
 
organized by local capacitated 
partners and Universities, 
reaching out to a minimum of 
800 youth of which 50% are 
women     
• At least 40 youth of which 50% 
have received training on 
enterprise creation 
• At least 40 existing enterprises 
received technical assistance 
for business growth – among 
these enterprises a significant 
share will be managed by 
women 
projects (human 
resources are available) 
 
promotion seminars) 
$50,000 
(training enterprise 
creation) 
$36,000 (regional experts) 
Output 1.3 
 
Environmental training contents developed and 
provided to training institutions and private 
experts in the four regions 
• At least 16 experts from 
support institutions and 16 
private experts trained and 
have applied the green 
business plan (a significant 
share of experts are women) 
• Training reports 
• M& E reports 
• Institutions are able 
to include the 
modules into their 
curricula 
• Private experts are 
motivated to facilitate 
the training 
      Italy: $ 30,000 total 
 
       $12,000  (development of   
the environmental training 
module) 
       $18,000 ( regional experts) 
Output 1.4 
 
115 projects are selected by National Steering 
Committee and experts to receive training, 
support and technical assistance  
• At least 40 starts up identified  
• At least 75 expansion projects 
of existing enterprises 
identified 
 
• List of projects selected 
• Progress reports of 
experts/institutions 
providing counselling 
and technical 
assistance 
• M&E reports 
 
• Projects (on-going, 
new) with high 
employment potentials 
are available in the 
selected lagging 
regions  
Italy: US$30,000  total 
 
$12,000 (experts for 
identification of projects) 
$18,000 (regional experts) 
Output 1.5 
 
115 selected projects in the selected regions 
assisted (40 start ups for training and counselling 
and 75 existing enterprises have received direct 
and adequate technical assistance including the 
UNIDO TEST methodology) 
• 40 SME action plans 
formulated (for the start ups) 
among which a significant 
share of SMEs are managed by 
women 
• 40 growth plans developed (for 
existing enterprises) 
• At least 15 enterprises receive 
TA on TEST methodology 
 
• Action plans  
• Bank 
reports/institutions’ 
financial reports 
• Enterprises’ surveys 
• Data on water and 
energy consumption 
provided by SMEs prior 
and after use of TEST 
methodology  
 
• The TEST methodology 
can be applied in the 
selected SMEs in the 
targeted regions 
• SMEs are interested in 
participating in the 
TEST 
Italy: US$ 280,000 
$78,000 (training  and TA 
TEST) 
$40,000 (int. experts TEST) 
$15,000 (int. experts for 
technical assistance) 
$75,000 (experts TA) 
$72,000 (regional experts) 
 
USAID: US$293,000 
$120,000 (int’l experts 
31 
 
including $10,000 
evaluation expert) 
$10,000 (expert travels) 
$119,000 (TA experts) 
$44,000 (subcontracts 
technical centers for TA to 
enterprises 
Output 1.6 
 
Assistance is provided to selected projects to 
access adequate funding  and linkages with 
UNIDO networks (i.a ITPO)  
• US $ mobilized by the selected 
projects 
• The selected entrepreneurs receive 
the funds 
 
• Financial agreements 
• RTC reports 
• API report 
• M&E reports  
• Companies are able to 
mobilize collateral and/or 
guarantees  
Italy: US$ 28,000 
$6,000 (regional experts 
$10,000 (financial scheme 
experts) 
$12,000 (regional experts) 
COMPONENT 2 
Methodology: 
HP LIFE (UNIDO-HP partnership ) 
 
 
 
 
 
Output 1.78 
 
Enhanced capacity of eight training centers to 
provide LIFE trainings 
• Selected 8 training centers 
equipped with technology to 
provide trainings for 
entrepreneurs 
• Center reports  
• Equipment in place 
(Equipment delivery 
confirmation) 
• Training institutions 
have a suitable training 
room available 
HP: US$ 177,800 total 
 
$176,800 (notebooks, 
printers, projectors) 
$1,000 (project assistants) 
Output 1.8 
 
Young entrepreneurs access IT tools in business 
training and business counselling  for enterprise 
creation and business efficiency  
• 32 local trainers trained on IT 
tools in business (HP LIFE) 
• 10-12 HP LIFE master trainers 
trained 
• At least  1400 youth trained 
F2F on IT tools for business  
• At least 146 LIFE trainees 
obtained business/financial  
counselling to facilitate the 
creation of their own 
enterprise 
• Share of women entrepreneurs 
is about 50%  
 
• MTOT and TOT Training 
reports 
• Bi-annual HP LIFE 
center surveys 
• Training centers 
reports 
• Employment records 
 
Training institutions are 
capable to support the 
indicated number of 
youth;  
Young people are IT savvy 
to access and manage the 
tools 
USAID: US$ 429,578 
total 
 
$82,000 (int’l experts 
including $10,000 evaluation 
expert) 
$268,778 (national project 
coordinator, national experts 
for LIFE trainings and business 
counselling) 
 
$75,000 (LIFE MTOT and 
TOTs) 
$3,800 (project travel) 
 
                                                 
8 Outputs 1.7 and 1.8 are complementary, but financed by different donors 
32 
 
                                                 
9 Output 1.11 will be closely linked to Output 1.12 
Output 1.9 
 
Development of an environmental training 
module for the online LIFE curriculum  
• Environmental training 
module developed in 
French/Tun. Arabic 
• Integration of 
environmental module 
into online LIFE platform 
• Abt. 400 entrepreneurs 
access LIFE 
environmental module 
(abt. 50% are women) 
 Online reporting 
 Training centres surveys 
and reports  
       
Integration of LIFE environmental 
module into online LIFE 
curriculum technically feasible 
Sufficient access to online 
learning for entrepreneurs. 
USAID: US$ 177,800 total 
$30,000 (int’l experts) 
$35,000 (national experts for 
development of training module) 
$102,800 (design & online 
integration of environ. training 
module for LIFE) 
$5,000 (staff travel) 
$5,000 (project assistant) 
 
Output 1.10 
 
Online HP LIFE platform adapted and launched  
• Online training platform 
available in  
French/Arabic 
• Abt. 7,000 
entrepreneurs access 
LIFE training online 
platform 
Online reports 
Training centres surveys         
Launch of global HP LIFE online 
platform is as planned 
USAID: US$ 405,056 total 
 
$98,000 (int’l experts) 
$60,000 (national experts) 
$150,000 (subcontract training 
platform) 
$86,056 (trainings, workshops) 
$11,000 (expert travel) 
 
Output 1.119 
Communication and promotional activities on 
HP LIFE  
• Promotional activities 
(press, video production 
etc.) implemented on 
HP LIFE online training 
tools 
• Media reports, press 
releases 
• Interest of media to cover HP 
LIFE and institutes / networks 
to promote HP LIFE online  
HP: US$84,927 total 
$10,000 (int’l  evaluation expert) 
$15,000 (national experts) 
$59,927 (video production, 
press, media) 
COMPONENT 1 
Methodologies:  
Enterprise creation and development 
UNIDO TEST 
 
 
 
 
COMPONENT 2 
Methodology: 
HP LIFE (UNIDO-HP partnership ) 
 
 
 
 
Output 1.12 
 
Communication and marketing strategy is 
developed and implemented  
• At least 4 
promotional/awareness 
raising events 
implemented  
• At least 4 different media 
kit s are developed for 
different audiences  
• Press Release 
collections 
• M&E reports   
• Interest of media to cover the 
events  
 
Italy: US$ 56,000 
$30,000 (comm. strategy and 
media coverage) 
$20,000 (national comm. 
experts) 
$6,000 (regional experts) 
 
USAID: US$ 12,000 
$12,000 (national comm. 
33 
 
Output 1.13 
Management, Monitoring and Evaluation of 
project  
• The project activities are 
implemented according to 
the timelines set in the 
project document 
• M&E reports 
• Reports for NSC 
 
Italy: US$ 409,500 
 
$170,000 (international 
project expert) 
$90,000 (technical support 
HQ) 
$20,000 (international 
Evaluation expert) 
$20,000 (national M&E 
expert) 
$72,000 (2 project assistants: 
one at HQs, one in the field) 
$10,000 (staff travel) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
expert and misc.) 
HP: US$ 10,000 
$10,000 (national comm. 
expert) 
 
34 
 
 
ANNEX E: PROJECT TIMELINES 
 
 
 
Outputs 
Months 
 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
28 
29 
30 
 
Output 
1.1 
Market assessment 
completed at the project 
outset to ensure for a 
demand driven approach 
x 
x 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Output 
1.2 
Support institutions are 
strengthened in the field of 
enterprise creation, growth 
and competitiveness  
 
 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
Output 
1.3 
Environmental training 
contents developed and 
provided to training 
institutions and private 
experts in the four regions 
 
 
 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Output 
1.4 
80 projects are selected by 
National Steering Committee 
and experts to receive 
training, support and 
technical assistance  
 
 
 
x 
x 
x 
x 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Output 
1.5 
115 selected projects in the 
selected regions assisted (40 
start ups for training and 
counselling and 75 existing 
enterprises have received 
direct and adequate 
technical assistance including 
the UNIDO TEST 
methodology) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
Output 
1.6 
Assistance is provided to 
selected projects to access 
adequate funding  and 
linkages with UNIDO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
35 
 
networks (i.a ITPO)  
 
 
Outputs 
Months 
 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
28 
29 
30 
 
Output 
1.7 
Enhanced capacity of eight 
training centers to provide 
LIFE trainings  
 
x 
x 
x 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Output 
1.8 
Young entrepreneurs access 
IT tools in business training 
and business counselling  for 
enterprise creation and 
business efficiency  
 
 
 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
Output 
1.9 
Development of an 
environmental training 
module for the online LIFE 
curriculum  
 
 
 
x 
x 
x 
x 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Output 
1.10 
Online HP LIFE platform 
adapted and launched  
 
 
 
 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
Output 
1.11 
Communication and 
promotional activities on HP 
LIFE 
 
 
 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
Output 
1.12 
Communication and 
marketing strategy is 
developed and implemented 
 
 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
x 
X 
Output 
1.13 
Management, Monitoring 
and Evaluation of project 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

